# EIT Experiment

## Lab Notes
It would be nice to keep lab notes in:
> notes/lab_notes.qmd

To avoid merge conflict there we work in seperate files, i.e. 
> notes/dominic.qmd
> notes/awais.qmd

which get imported into the lab_notes. 

This can then be rendered into an webpage, including interactive plots etc...

The lab notes are automatically generated by github and are found [here](https://dominicnieder.github.io/EIT-march23/)!

## Explaining the Repo

### Github settings
- fist add a file named ".gitignore" this will automatically be recognised by Git, so that it ignores all files (pdf for reading, *.log, etc...) that are not required to be shared.
Here is the content of my `.gitignore` file:

```gitignore
# my literature to read
reading/
__pycache__/

# any other pdf, also from .tex
*.pdf

# latex specific
*.out
*.fls
*.log
*.xml
*.sta
*.gz
*.aux
*.bbl
*.fdb_latexmk
*.bcf
*.blg
*.toc

# do not change
.gitignore

# my python environment
.eit_environment/

# quarto generated output
/.quarto/
*_files/
*.html
*_cache/
```


### Report and Latex

Depending on from which directory the "main.tex" will be compiled from, the **figures/picutres will be accessed by a different path**. 

In report/main.tex there is a line that will access all figures from figure/ and, or pictures/ (line 22)
> \graphicspath{{../figures/}{../pictures/}}

run from commandline:
> cd report && pdflatex main.tex



### Python coding

The necessary packages are in "code-analysis/requirements.txt". 

##### Workflow: using pip (venv) 
Check for python version (should be 3.12.3) in
> code-analysis/.python-version

Create python environment in code-analysis, i.e. with "venv" using BASH:
> python3 -m venv code-analysis/.eit_environment

To activate it type
> source code-analysis/.eit_environment/bin/activate

Use
> which pip

**to make sure you are using the correct environment!**

To **install all packages** which are used:
> which pip
> pip install -r requirements.txt

If you **add a different package** (make sure your **correct environment is active!**):
> which pip
> pip install PACKAGE_NAME
> pip freeze > requirements.txt

Thus the "requirements.txt is up-to-date, including all packages that might be used.


##### Wrokflow: organisation
The analysis should be carried out in main.py!
Functions should be defined in the appropriate file! Add further files if needed. 
Keep track of packages being used.

Access functions in main.py i.e. by the following:
```python
import plotting as p

from fitting import fit_gaussian
from utils import keep_log, read_entry, read_folder, open_log, post_log

from handling_data import load_spectrum, load_all_spectra, load_coincidence

import func 
import os
import numpy as np
#--------------------------------------------------
#           Here the Analysis shall be performed
#--------------------------------------------------

### select which part of the analysis shall be performed

run =           False


# all directories       
dir_data = "../data"
dir_figures = "../figures"
dir_pictures = "../pictures"

# analysis section
def callibration():
    data_loc = "/calibration"


# execution:
if run:
    callibration()
```



### Data, Figures, Pictures, Results

- The meausrements -> data/
- plots (i.e. from analysis) go to figures/
- photos -> pictures/
- results from analysis -> results/

Every directory contains an "orientation.txt" file. This should help to keep log, enabling concise naming of files, with descriptions.


### Report and labnotes
Use the report folder to keep tabs on discussions, decision making and observations during experimentation. Collect literature.

#### literature
Keep tabs of literature in 
> report/literature.bib

In "annote" keep tabs on what content is of interest of the source.
